Add stylesheet. (#3409)
modelica/ModelicaSpecification: chapters/annotations.tex

>   String info = "" "Description of the class";

Reviewer: When thinking about the `styleSheets` description string, it strikes me that it seems wrong to describe `into` as a `description`.  Shouldn't we say _Documentation of the class_ to avoid confusion with the class' description string?
```suggestion
  String info = "" "Documentation of the class";
```

Author: That line wasn't changed so I don't think we should change it here. Especially as that would lead to something described as Documentation inside the Documentation-annotation, which both looks a bit odd and can lead to ambiguities as Documentation can then be seen as referring to either of them.

Both info and revisions document _aspects_ of the class; it may be that we can find a better description, preferably including "Information"  - but in another PR.

Reviewer: Sure.  Resolving.

  String revisions = "" "Revision history";
  Figure[:] figures = {}; "Simulation result figures";

>   String styleSheet = "" "Only at top, and alternatively String[:]";

Reviewer: This must be the first time we try to do this with the record style.  Wouldn't it be better to have the array as the main case, as it allows for a better default? Also, the description string should focus on purpose rather than syntax and restrictions.
```suggestion
  String[:] styleSheets = {} "Style sheets for documentation and revision history";
```
(A shorter description string might fit the format of the specification document better.)

Author: Here we see the problem of describing info as Documentation; without that change we can just use 

`String[:] styleSheets = {} "Style sheets for documentation";`

Where documentation refer to the Documentation-node.

Author: I will add that change.

Reviewer: Thanks.  Resolving.

end Documentation;

> \end{lstlisting}

Reviewer: Give syntax details here instead:
```suggestion
\end{lstlisting}

The \lstinline!styleSheets! may also be given as a single string, with the same meaning as an singleton array containing the string.
```

<a href="modelica:/MultiBody.Joints.Revolute#info">Revolute</a>
\end{lstlisting}

> \subsubsection{Style sheet}

Reviewer: Title case:
```suggestion
\subsubsection{Style Sheet}
```

> A top-level package may contain an annotation \lstinline!styleSheet="modelica:/Package/Resources/style.css"!, which provides a cascading stylesheet.

Reviewer: Two words:
```suggestion
A top-level package may contain an annotation \lstinline!styleSheet="modelica:/Package/Resources/style.css"!, which provides a cascading style sheet.
```

> The given stylesheet is used when displaying the \lstinline!info! and \lstinline!revisions! annotations found in the \lstinline!Documentation! annotations.

Reviewer: Two words (and singular):
```suggestion
The given style sheet is used when displaying the \lstinline!info! and \lstinline!revisions! annotations found in the \lstinline!Documentation! annotation.
```

> The given style sheet is used when displaying the \lstinline!info! and \lstinline!revisions! annotations found in the \lstinline!Documentation! annotation.

Author: ```suggestion
The given style sheet is used when displaying the \lstinline!info! and \lstinline!revisions! annotations found in the \lstinline!Documentation! annotations of the package.
```
The reason it said "annotations" is that there are (normally) multiple such annotations in the package, so clarifying that with "of the package"

> The provided stylesheet shall not use type or universal selectors.

Reviewer: Two words:
```suggestion
The provided style sheet shall not use type or universal selectors.
```

Reviewer: Is it really clear enough to our audience what _type or universal selectors_ mean?  Perhaps we could have a tiny inline example for each?
```suggestion
The provided stylesheet shall not use type (for example \lstinline[language=css]!h1 { $\ldots$ }!) or universal (for example \lstinline[language=css]!* { $\ldots$ }!) selectors.
```

Author: Hm... This made me realize that libraries do use (and want to use) type selectors, e.g. to modify the font (size, family, weight) of headings like h1 - and even universal selectors.
I'm not saying that it is necessarily a good idea, but neither do I think that we should forbid it outright (could make it up to tool-vendor?).

\begin{nonnormative}

> It is recommended to use class and id selectors with a \lstinline!$NameOfLibrary$-! prefix to avoid collisions when the content is included in a larger context.

Reviewer: Markup (need a tiny listings language definition as well):
```suggestion
It is recommended to use \lstinline![language=css]!class! and \lstinline![language=css]!id! selectors with a \lstinline[language=css]!$NameOfLibrary$-! prefix to avoid collisions when the content is included in a larger context.
```

> The provided style sheet shall not use type or universal selectors.
> \begin{nonnormative}
> It is recommended to use \lstinline[language=CSS]!class! and \lstinline[language=CSS]!id! selectors with a \lstinline[language=CSS]!$NameOfLibrary$-! prefix to avoid collisions when the content is included in a larger context.
> \end{nonnormative}

Author: ```suggestion
\begin{nonnormative}
It is recommended to use \lstinline[language=CSS]!class! and \lstinline[language=CSS]!id! selectors with a \lstinline[language=CSS]!$NameOfLibrary$-! prefix to avoid collisions when the content is included in a larger context.
It is recommended to not use type or universal selectors, unless the tool has documented that possibility.
\end{nonnormative}
```
Since existing style sheets use type and universal selectors (assumedly for good reasons) I don't think we should prohibit it in general. I'm not sure if this should be non-normative or not, but the idea with moving it later was primarily to re-arrange it so that we first have the recommended variant and then the not-so-good one.

Reviewer 2: > I don't think we should prohibit it in general.

I think we should, since a user might see this recommendation, create something that looks good in one version of one tool, but break completely in another tool or tool version.

Author: I can understand that is a bit of a problem, but with the existing style sheets used in Dymola we have multiple libraries with e.g.:
```

*       { font-size: ...; font-family: ...; }
...
h5      { font-size: ...; font-weight: ...; color: ...; }
...
h1      { font-size: ...; font-weight: ...; color: ...; }
...
a:link {  color: ...; }
..
```

Reviewer 2: That is exactly the thing that we want to prevent! Overriding that broad of a selection is guaranteed to break styling of tool-generated content.

Reviewer 2: > However, CSS is designed to have precedence between different stylings so it shouldn't just break - but be possible to ensure that you still get the desired result.

Can you explain how this can safeguard tool-generated content? From what I can tell, precedence in CSS is very complicated, and I cannot see how a tool would generate content that is safe from any user-provided CSS.

> And more importantly that is the styling users want to use.

For their own content, surely.

For a page like this, a user should only style the red part:

![image](https://github.com/modelica/ModelicaSpecification/assets/329963/21221c15-d8be-4f8e-bf26-1b79a255ba8f)

The rest, the user cannot be expected to style, since they don't even know what that is, since it may come from a tool they don't even have.

Author: > > However, CSS is designed to have precedence between different stylings so it shouldn't just break - but be possible to ensure that you still get the desired result.
> 
> Can you explain how this can safeguard tool-generated content? From what I can tell, precedence in CSS is very complicated, and I cannot see how a tool would generate content that is safe from any user-provided CSS.

My assumption is that the complexity is exactly due to enabling that.

However, most of the precedence can be ignored - users cannot use inline style for the tool-generated elements, and they shouldn't use their IDs; so what matter seems to just be specificity of selectors which simplifies the discussion a lot.

And the simplest solution would be to forbid using `!important` for users, and then use that as an escape mechanism.

Reviewer 2: > And the simplest solution would be to forbid using `!important` for users, and then use that as an escape mechanism.

I guess maybe with some combination of tool usage of `all:revert`? https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/all#revert

I don't have enough experience with CSS to tell if this would work.

Author: The provided style sheet should not use type or universal selectors, due to possible interference with tool-specific styling.
 (After the non-normative recommendation.)

Author: (Language group compromise.)

Reviewer: This has now been implemented.  Resolving.

> Vendors shall use a \lstinline!$NameOfVendor$-! prefix to style vendor generated HTML content surrounding the user provided documentation.

Reviewer: Specify language:
```suggestion
Vendors shall use a \lstinline[language=css]!$NameOfVendor$-! prefix to style vendor generated HTML content surrounding the user provided documentation.
```

If tools want to give users (of that tool) the possibility to override the tool-specific CSS they can document that.
The prefix is used to avoid this happening by accident.

> 

Reviewer: (Attaching comment to line not already occupied with other comments.)

Shouldn't `styleSheet` be part of `Documentation`?

Author: I can understand that idea, but it made me realize that I made an error in merging one of the suggestions.
The point is that the style sheet is given for the entire library (having multiple style sheets in one package would create a mess) - whereas Documentation is for each class.
I will restore text for that.

Reviewer: This has been addressed.  Resolving.

<a href="modelica:/MultiBody.Joints.Revolute#info">Revolute</a>
\end{lstlisting}

> \subsubsection{Style Sheet}

Reviewer: Plural, corresponding to the array as the base case:
```suggestion
\subsubsection{Style Sheets}
```

> A top-level package may inside the \lstinline!Documentation! have an annotation \lstinline!styleSheet="modelica:/Package/Resources/style.css"!, which provides a cascading style sheet.
> It may also be a vector of strings that corresponding to different style sheets that will be cascaded in the given order.

Reviewer: Match style of other annotations inside `Documentation`:
```suggestion
Inside the \lstinline!Documentation! annotation, each element of the \lstinline!styleSheets! annotation array specifies a cascading style sheet applying to the class documentation (\lstinline!info!) and revision history (\lstinline!revisions!).
The \lstinline!styleSheets! annotation is only considered for top-level packages, and applies to all class documentation and revision history in the entire package.
The style sheets will be cascaded in the given order.
Specifying just a string for \lstinline!styleSheets! has the same meaning as specifying a singleton array containing the string.
```

> The given style sheet(s) is used when displaying the \lstinline!info! and \lstinline!revisions! annotations found in the \lstinline!Documentation! annotations of the package.

Reviewer: Ignore singleton case here:
```suggestion
The style sheets are used when displaying the \lstinline!info! and \lstinline!revisions! annotations found in the \lstinline!Documentation! annotations of the package.
```

Reviewer: Also, I'd prefer to move this sentence (giving the purpose of the annotation) just after the first one, before the restriction about top-level packages.

Author: Will do.

\begin{nonnormative}
It is recommended to use \lstinline[language=CSS]!class! and \lstinline[language=CSS]!id! selectors with a \lstinline[language=CSS]!$NameOfLibrary$-! prefix to avoid collisions when the content is included in a larger context.
\end{nonnormative}

> The provided style sheet should not use type or universal selectors, due to possible interference with tool-specific styling.

Reviewer: Avoid distinction between single and array of style sheets:
```suggestion
The style sheet rules should not use type or universal selectors, due to possible interference with tool-specific styling.
```

> Vendors shall use a \lstinline[language=CSS]!$NameOfVendor$-! prefix to style vendor generated HTML content surrounding the user provided documentation.

Reviewer: If we say _should_ above to save existing libraries out there, we I guess we should also say _should_ here to save existing tools?
```suggestion
Vendors should use a \lstinline[language=CSS]!$NameOfVendor$-! prefix to style vendor generated HTML content surrounding the user provided documentation.
```
